README.md, before:

# GenCaster

An web environment for generative audio streams with low latency and device agnostic thanks to WebRTC.

## Services

To give an overview of the project we will state the function of the different services described in the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
For service specific details check the `README.md` within each folder.

Service | Folder | Port | Comment
--- | --- | --- | ---
`backend` | `caster-back` | `8081` | Django backend with database management for streams
`osc_backend` | `caster-back` | `57130` | OSC server to receive OSC messages from SuperCollider and insert them into the database
`editor` | `caster-editor` | `3001` | Editor fronted for story graphs
`frontend` | `caster-front` | `3000` | Nuxt frontend for user interaction
`sound` | `caster-sound` | `57120`, `8088` | SuperCollider server which can be listened to via WebRTC.
`database` | | `5432` | A postgres database.

## Documentation

This project is documented via Sphinx.
The documentation sources are in the folder `docs` and the documentation
can be build by executing

```shell
make docs
```

Be sure to run this in the proper Python environment (e.g. virtualenv).

## Development

Please use [`pre-commit`](https://pre-commit.com/) before committing to the repository.

After a commit on the `main` branch it will trigger a re-deployment on the development server.

### Local development

To start a local instance of GenCaster with all its services simply type the following command into a shell.

```shell
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml up
```

You can instead also use `make` via

```shell
make docker-local
```

### Server setup

The deployment server requires the following dependencies installed

* `git`
* `make`
* `docker` (with `docker compose`)

Also `nginx` as a reverse proxy is recommended.

### Network

As the connection of WebRTC relies on delicate network routing we deploy the Janus service in docker network mode `host` instead of `bridge` which puts every service behind a NAT.
The `host` method has the disadvantage that every port we expose within our container is also exposed on our host which an lead to port clashes as well as security problems so please be sure that the firewall is set up correctly.

As WebRTC only works within a SSL environment we use a nginx reverse proxy to forward the port `8089` to the local port `8088` which is the http version of the Janus server.
By doing this we can let nginx handle the SSL context and not need to embed this into Janus.

Commit message:

add flag to start docker-local w/o editor

README.md, after:

# GenCaster

An web environment for generative audio streams with low latency and device agnostic thanks to WebRTC.

## Services

To give an overview of the project we will state the function of the different services described in the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
For service specific details check the `README.md` within each folder.

Service | Folder | Port | Comment
--- | --- | --- | ---
`backend` | `caster-back` | `8081` | Django backend with database management for streams
`osc_backend` | `caster-back` | `57130` | OSC server to receive OSC messages from SuperCollider and insert them into the database
`editor` | `caster-editor` | `3001` | Editor fronted for story graphs
`frontend` | `caster-front` | `3000` | Nuxt frontend for user interaction
`sound` | `caster-sound` | `57120`, `8088` | SuperCollider server which can be listened to via WebRTC.
`database` | | `5432` | A postgres database.

## Documentation

This project is documented via Sphinx.
The documentation sources are in the folder `docs` and the documentation
can be build by executing

```shell
make docs
```

Be sure to run this in the proper Python environment (e.g. virtualenv).

## Development

Please use [`pre-commit`](https://pre-commit.com/) before committing to the repository.

After a commit on the `main` branch it will trigger a re-deployment on the development server.

### Local development

To start a local instance of GenCaster with all its services simply type the following command into a shell.

```shell
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml up
```

You can instead also use `make` via

```shell
make docker-local
```

#### Start without editor

As `node_modules` is tied next to the source code and there seems no way to point this to another directory we get into trouble if we mix up a `node_modules` of the host machine with a `node_modules` folder of our container as this can contain platform specific binaries.

[It is said](https://esbuild.github.io/getting-started/#simultaneous-platforms) that *yarn* allows to circumvent this by [downloading binaries for multiple platforms](https://yarnpkg.com/configuration/yarnrc#supportedArchitectures) but this feature seems to be not working currently.

To therefore allow for hot-reloading during development it is also possible to start GenCaster without the editor via `make -e docker-local`. If you start `make docker-local` without the `-e` flag you will start build version of the editor which is served via nginx.

### Server setup

The deployment server requires the following dependencies installed

* `git`
* `make`
* `docker` (with `docker compose`)

Also `nginx` as a reverse proxy is recommended.

### Network

As the connection of WebRTC relies on delicate network routing we deploy the Janus service in docker network mode `host` instead of `bridge` which puts every service behind a NAT.
The `host` method has the disadvantage that every port we expose within our container is also exposed on our host which an lead to port clashes as well as security problems so please be sure that the firewall is set up correctly.

As WebRTC only works within a SSL environment we use a nginx reverse proxy to forward the port `8089` to the local port `8088` which is the http version of the Janus server.
By doing this we can let nginx handle the SSL context and not need to embed this into Janus.
